Contents

Data Simulation: Creates a mock dataset for demonstration purposes.
Data Preprocessing: Ensures the dataset is properly formatted for analysis.
Repeated Measures ANOVA: Tests main effects and interactions between factors.
Post-Hoc Tests: Provides pairwise comparisons if significant effects are found.
Visualization: Plots the trends in memory retention over trials for each group.
Dependencies

The following R packages are required to run this script:

tidyverse: For data manipulation and visualization.
afex: For performing repeated measures ANOVA.
emmeans: For post-hoc pairwise comparisons.
ggplot2: For creating visualizations.
Installing Required Packages
Install any missing packages using:

install.packages(c("tidyverse", "afex", "emmeans"))
Steps to Run the Script

Open RStudio or any R environment.
Copy the script into an R script file (e.g., memory_analysis.R).
Run the script line by line to:
Simulate the dataset.
Perform the repeated measures ANOVA.
Conduct post-hoc tests (if applicable).
Visualize the results.
Key Variables

Participant: Unique identifier for participants (30 individuals in this dataset).
Group: Between-subject factor with two levels:
Therapy (intervention group).
Control (comparison group).
Trial: Within-subject factor representing three repeated measures.
RetentionScore: Simulated memory retention scores for participants.
Statistical Analysis

Repeated Measures ANOVA:
Within-subject factor: Trial (three repeated measurements).
Between-subject factor: Group (Therapy vs. Control).
Conducted using the aov_ez function from the afex package.
Post-Hoc Tests:
Pairwise comparisons of group means across trials, using the emmeans package.
Provides detailed comparisons with p-values.
Visualization

The script generates a line plot using ggplot2:

X-axis: Trial (1, 2, 3).
Y-axis: Mean memory retention scores.
Color and Grouping: By intervention group (Therapy or Control).
Example Output

ANOVA Results (console output):
Displays main effects, interaction effects, and their significance.
Post-Hoc Results (console output):
Shows pairwise comparisons for group differences across trials.
Plot:
A clear visualization of memory retention trends across trials for both groups.
Customization

Replace the simulated dataset with your actual dataset.
Modify the factors (Group, Trial) to match your data structure.
Update plot labels, titles, or themes as needed.
Contact

For questions or further assistance, feel free to reach out:

Name: [Kadence Evans]
